# Financial-Forecasting-
Time series analysis is essential for forecasting and understanding historical patterns in business, including exchange rates. These rates are noisy and influenced by economic factors, making predictions challenging. Traditional methods struggle, so Neural Networks, which emulate human learning, offer a better alternative.


Time series analysis can be used in a multitude of business applications for forecasting a quantity into the future and explaining its historical patterns. Exchange rate is the currency rate of one country expressed in terms of the currency of another country. In the modern world, exchange rates of the most successful countries are tending to be floating. This system is set by the foreign exchange market over supply and demand for that particular currency in relation to the other currencies. Exchange rate prediction is one of the challenging applications of modern time series forecasting and very important for the success of many businesses and financial institutions. The rates are inherently noisy, non-stationary and deterministically chaotic. One general assumption made in such cases is that the historical data incorporate all those behavior. As a result, the historical data is the major input to the prediction process. Forecasting of exchange rate poses many challenges. Exchange rates are influenced by many economic factors. As like economic time series exchange rate has trend cycle and irregularity. Classical time series analysis does not perform well on finance-related time series. Hence, the idea of applying Neural Networks (NN) to forecast exchange rate has been considered as an alternative solution. NN tries to emulate human learning capabilities, creating models that represent the neurons in the human brain.